---
layout: post
title: "The Point"
date: 2014-04-06 00:33:02 -0400
published: false
comments: true
category: faith
---
I recently came across a [post][imgur-post] on imgur
  (greatest timesink of my day, sometimes)
  that---at least in my own mind---sparked a debate.

The crux of what was said is this:

> I realize this is a joke, but I'd like to see the verse where Jesus
> promised to get rid of all the wicked people. •
> He never promised that at all.  He came to abolish the outdated ways
> and bring in a more open way. •
> Funny, when people try and do that now they get referred back to
> cherry picked parts of the old testament. •
> Yeah, the old ways that were abolished when Jesus came. Seriously,
> stop referring to outdated material.

I tried to express my thoughts in the comments there,
  but 140 characters is not really enough to make
  complete, coherent thoughts on this topic.
I'll link to this article so those interested can---hopefully---read it.

## The Old Testament Remains Valid ##

Simply because it is dubbed "The Old Testament" does not mean it is outdated, as you say.
The Old Testament (henceforth OT) refers to the pact made and more-or-less maintained
  between God and the people of Israel.
The New Testament (NT) is the same pact in the context of the reality of the Messiah.
The NT *does not* completely replace the OT, but rather clarifies its content and meaning
  by weaving together all the law and prophecy together into one incredibly unexpected
  package---what we know as the Gospel.
The Gospel can only be understood in the context of the history and intentions of the OT.

At no point has the OT as a whole become 'outdated'
  (with some exceptions for the concepts of clean/unclean---these
  were often merely elements of what would have been good hygiene in antiquity).
Sins so described are still sins---we are simply blessed to have
  the perfect blood of Christ as an eternally sufficient sacrifice
  to atone for them.
This is the only instance (up to memory) where the OT has been superceded:
  pre-Messiah, animal sacrifices had to be made to atone for sin.
These animals had to be the most perfect available---the best you had to offer.
Of course these sacrifices were not perfect,
  but this tradition is completed in the sacrifice of the perfect Lamb, the Messiah.
Not replaced, but augmented.
Not outdated, but completed.

> It is finished.

[imgur-post]: http://imgur.com/gallery/YJd5DKM/comment/204032215/1
